"Decoding Sign Language: A Deep Learning Approach with Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)"

Overview:
This project aims to utilize the power of deep learning and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to generate images of hands doing sign language. The model, inspired by the DCGAN architecture, will be trained on a dataset of hand images performing sign language gestures. The ultimate goal is to decode sign language and bring attention to the deaf and hard of hearing community.

Motivation:
Sign language is a valuable means of communication for the deaf and hard of hearing community. However, it is often neglected and overlooked in society. With the advancement of deep learning and computer vision, this project aims to bridge the gap and shed light on the importance of sign language by decoding it into images that are easily understandable by the wider audience.

Learning Objectives:

Understanding Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) and how they work
Implementing a GAN model inspired by the DCGAN architecture
Training the GAN model on a dataset of hand images performing sign language gestures
Generating new images of hands performing sign language gestures

Technical Aspects:
The project is built using the TensorFlow library and requires a basic understanding of deep learning concepts. The dataset used for training the model is the "signs-training" dataset and consists of hand images performing sign language gestures. The model is trained using the Adam optimization algorithm and the binary cross-entropy loss function.

Technology Used:

TensorFlow
Matplotlib
Numpy
Os
Zipfile
Urllib
Random

Data Source:
The data source for this project is the "signs-training" dataset, which can be downloaded from "signs-training.zip". The dataset consists of hand images performing sign language gestures.

Project Structure:
The project is structured as follows:

Imports and utilities
Retrieval of training data
Preprocessing of images
Building of the generator
Building of the discriminator
Compilation of the discriminator
Building and compilation of the GAN model
Training of the GAN model
Running the training
Selection of the best images
Zipping the selected images

Credits:
The project is inspired by the DCGAN architecture.

Link references:

TensorFlow: https://www.tensorflow.org/
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): https://arxiv.org/pdf/1406.2661.pdf
Signs-training dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datamunge/sign-language-mnist
Link repository:
The link to the repository can be provided once the project is complete and ready for sharing.